================================================================================

1st International Constrained Horn Clause Satisfiability Competition
                            (CHC-COMP'18)
                      https://chc-comp.github.io

                            July 13, 2018
                        Oxford, United Kingdom

                          CALL FOR COMMENTS
                         CALL FOR BENCHMARKS
                     PRELIMINARY CALL FOR SOLVERS

================================================================================

CHC-COMP is the annual competition among Constrained Horn Clause
solvers. The goal of the competition is to advance development of
solvers, facilitate standardization and evolution of the input format,
and collect benchmarks, and promote a friendly competition.

CHC-COMP'18 will end in time to be described and the results announced
during the HCVS Workshop (July 13), which is affiliated with the
International Conference on Computer Aided Verification (CAV 2018),
International Conference on Logic Programming (ICLP 2018) and
International Joint Conference on Automated Reasoning (IJCAR 2018) at
International Federated Logic Conference (FLoC 2018).

The organizers for CHC-COMP'18 are:

    - Arie Gurfinkel            University of Waterloo, Canada
    - Philipp Ruemmer           Uppsala University, Sweden
    - Grigory Fedyukovich       Princeton University, USA
    - Adrien Champion           University of Tokyo, Japan

This is a call for three things:

# CALL FOR COMMENTS:

The organizers are preparing the schedule and the rules for 2018.  Any
comments that you might have based on related competitions (SAT, SMT,
SVCOMP, etc.) to improve any aspect of the competition or improve the
focus of the competition will be considered by the organizers. We
particularly appreciate comments received by

             ** April 2, 2018 **

For CHC-COMP'18, we are particularly in comments regarding the rules
and the benchmark format that might prevent a potential competitor
from participating (e.g., complexities of the input format, supported
theories, etc.)

# CALL FOR BENCHMARKS:

The competition crucially depends on continuously renewed set of
benchmarks. A selection of benchmarks will be used for the
competition, in accordance with the rules that are currently being
discussed.

A preliminary collection of benchmarks is being collected at
https://github.com/chc-comp. If you have benchmarks that can be made
publicly available and might be of interest to the competition, please
let us know. Even if the benchmarks are not quite ready (for example,
they are in a custom format). We will work closely with any benchmark
submitter to prepare the benchmarks for inclusion in the current (or
future) versions of CHC-COMP.

The deadline for the benchmarks to be used in the competition will be
announced when the rules for the competition and benchmark format are
announced.

# PRELIMINARY CALL FOR SOLVERS

A submission deadline for solvers will be announced along with the
rules. However, it is useful for us to know in advance the potential
number of participants. If you are planning to participate, please let
us know as soon as possible. In particular, let us know if there are
changes to the rules and to the format that might block your
participation.

# COMMUNICATION

The competition web-site is https://chc-comp.github.io.

Announcements and discussions on gitter at https://gitter.im/chc-comp.

The competition GitHub organization is https://github.com/chc-comp.
